Alright, so we're going to start doing a
little bit of dynamic programming because
we haven't even covered any
dynamic programming have we?
Yeah, thank you.
The answer is no we haven't.
Can you define dynamic programming?
Yes, dynamic programming is using past
results to compute future values?
It's very very simple, so
let's just start with a very simple
Version of dynamic programming.
Factorial of n, right?
Wait.
That was not n.
N factorial!
Alright, so there we go, n factorial.
To compute n factorial,
we could do this the recursive way.
I could literally have factorial of n,
and so
then I just literally return factorial.
All real old people are going to be
molding because I didn't do a tail
recursion right there?
Molding, molding in the chat
right now you can feel it.
So there you go.
This would be the recursive solution.
Technically, you're still using kind of
like past values to calculate future ones.
So that's not quite the same.
You could imagine you could do the exact
same thing with a for loop, right?
For i equals one, two n and
you just simply sum up the numbers, right?
Or whatever it is.
You get the idea, I, there you go.
And then we return sum.
All right, so this would be like the
simple conversion from a recursive case to
an iterative case and
typically this is what you would see
when it comes to dynamic programming.
Typically it's a recursion to
an iterative solution, but
you usually reduce the dimensions.
There's only one dimension here,
nothing actually has changed.
So let's go with something with
a little bit more interestingness.
Let's talk about Fibonacci.
So this is like the next most
obvious dynamic Programming versus
just like your standard approach.
If you do your standard Fibonacci solve,
what you're going to see is
you're going to see this.
I'm sure you've all seen this,
which is going to be fib
(n-1) plus fib (n-2).
All right, so
the Fibonacci sequence is zero one one two
three five eight,
gosh 13 can't do math anymore, 21.
What you're going to see is
that you solve this problem.
Now what happens inside of this one?
Well this one, what do you solve?
Well, you're actually going to solve
Fib(n-2) plus fib(n-3), right?
That's what you're going
to solve right here.
Look at this and look at this.
You're going to compute
that value multiple times.
For every single time
you go down that tree,
you're computing a huge subset of
that tree over and and over again.
So that is why people don't
like to do it this way.
It's the cleanest way to do it, but it's
also super just not great way to do it.
The iterative version of this is
you're going to have an a and a b,
a will be equal to zero,
b will equal to one.
You're going to four from this
would be one, two, right?
So this would be the second
number in the solution.
So if it's less, if you have two or less,
then you just return out the number.
So if we're gonna start with three, so
that means we have to start at two,
going to three.
So if i equals three up to n inclusive,
by the way, here, we'll go like this.
Temp equals b, a, or
b equals a plus b, a equals b.
Or a equals t.
So there we go.
We've swapped the two values.
That means we went from zero and
one for a, to one and one.
Then we're going to go from that.
Here's a, here's b.
We're going to go again,
a will become the temporary variable.
So, a will remain one, b will become two.
Then you're going to have two and
you're going to have three, and
you're going to just watch
that thing kind of count up.
So we're no longer, we're using past
results to calculate future values.